cloud dm: add start position for incremental data migration (#13704)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/migrate-incremental-data-from-mysql-using-data-migration.md

---
title: Migrate Incremental Data from MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration
summary: Learn how to migrate incremental data from MySQL-compatible databases hosted in Amazon Aurora MySQL, Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS), Google Cloud SQL for MySQL, or a local MySQL instance to TiDB Cloud using Data Migration.
---

# Migrate Incremental Data from MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration

> This document describes how to migrate incremental data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (Amazon Aurora MySQL, Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS), or Google Cloud SQL for MySQL) or on-premises source database to TiDB Cloud using the Data Migration feature of the TiDB Cloud console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes how to migrate incremental data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (Amazon Aurora MySQL, Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS), or Google Cloud SQL for MySQL) or self-hosted source database to TiDB Cloud using the Data Migration feature of the TiDB Cloud console.
```

Reviewer: 过两天上线的产品重命名里 on-premises 都改成了 self-hosted。这里可以先改了，以免遗漏

---
title: Migrate Incremental Data from MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration
summary: Learn how to migrate incremental data from MySQL-compatible databases hosted in Amazon Aurora MySQL, Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS), Google Cloud SQL for MySQL, or a local MySQL instance to TiDB Cloud using Data Migration.
---

> # Migrate Incremental Data from MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration

Author: ```suggestion
# Migrate Only Incremental Data from MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration
```

This document describes how to migrate incremental data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (Amazon Aurora MySQL, Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS), or Google Cloud SQL for MySQL) or on-premises source database to TiDB Cloud using the Data Migration feature of the TiDB Cloud console.

For instructions about how to migrate existing data or both existing data and incremental data, see [Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration](/tidb-cloud/migrate-from-mysql-using-data-migration.md).

## Limitations

> **Note**:
>
> This section only includes limitations about incremental data migration. It is recommended that you also read the general limitations. See [Limitations](/tidb-cloud/migrate-from-mysql-using-data-migration.md#limitations).

> - If the target table is not yet created in the target database, the migration job will report an error as folloows and fail. In this case, you need to create the target table and then resume the migration job.

Author: ```suggestion
- If the target table is not yet created in the target database, the migration job will report an error as follows and fail. In this case, you need to create the target table and then resume the migration job.
```

> - If the target table is not yet created in the target database, the migration job will report an error as follows and fail. In this case, you need to create the target table and then resume the migration job.

Author: 有道理，改成 retry 吧

    ```sql
    startLocation: [position: (mysql_bin.000016, 5122), gtid-set:
    00000000-0000-0000-0000-00000000000000000], endLocation:
    [position: (mysql_bin.000016, 5162), gtid-set: 0000000-0000-0000
    0000-0000000000000:0]: cannot fetch downstream table schema of
    zm`.'table1' to initialize upstream schema 'zm'.'table1' in sschema
    tracker Raw Cause: Error 1146: Table 'zm.table1' doesn't exist
    ```

> - If the DELETE or UPDATE records of the upstream table do not exist in the downstream table, there will be no change in the data of the downstream table, that is, the UPDATE will not be changed to UPSERT.

Author: ```suggestion
- If some rows are deleted or updated in the upstream and there are no corresponding rows in the downstream, the migration job will detect that there are no rows available for deletion or update when replicating the DELETE and UPDATE DML operations from the upstream.
```

- `gtid_mode`
- `enforce_gtid_consistency`

You can check if the GTID mode has been successfully enabled by executing the following SQL statement:

```sql
SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'gtid_mode';
```

If the result is `ON` or `ON_PERMISSIVE`, the GTID mode is successfully enabled.

For more information, see [Parameters for GTID-based replication](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/mysql-replication-gtid.html#mysql-replication-gtid.parameters).

### For Google Cloud SQL for MySQL

The GTID mode is enabled for Google Cloud SQL for MySQL by default. You can check if the GTID mode has been successfully enabled by executing the following SQL statement:

```sql
SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'gtid_mode';
```

If the result is `ON` or `ON_PERMISSIVE`, the GTID mode is successfully enabled.

### For a local MySQL instance

> **Note**:
>
> The exact steps and commands might vary depending on the MySQL version and configuration. Make sure that you understand the impact of enabling GTID and that you have properly tested and verified it in a non-production environment before performing this action.

> To enable GTID for a local MySQL instance, follow these steps:

Author: ```suggestion
To enable the GTID mode for a local MySQL instance, follow these steps:
```

   - **Port**: the port of the data source.
   - **Username**: the username of the data source.
   - **Password**: the password of the username.
   - **SSL/TLS**: if you enable SSL/TLS, you need to upload the certificates of the data source, including any of the following:
        - only the CA certificate
        - the client certificate and client key
        - the CA certificate, client certificate and client key

3. Fill in the target connection profile.

   - **Username**: enter the username of the target cluster in TiDB Cloud.
   - **Password**: enter the password of the TiDB Cloud username.

4. Click **Validate Connection and Next** to validate the information you have entered.

5. Take action according to the message you see:

    - If you use Public IP or VPC Peering, you need to add the Data Migration service's IP addresses to the IP Access List of your source database and firewall (if any).
    - If you use AWS Private Link, you are prompted to accept the endpoint request. Go to the [AWS VPC console](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/home), and click **Endpoint services** to accept the endpoint request.

## Step 3: Choose migration job type

> To migrate only the incrementable data of the source database to TiDB Cloud, choose **Incremental data migration**. In this case, the migration job does not migrate the existing data of the source database to TiDB Cloud, but only migrates ongoing changes of the source database to TiDB Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To migrate only the incrementable data of the source database to TiDB Cloud, uncheck the "Existing data migration",and only check the **Incremental data migration**. In this case, the migration job does only migrates ongoing changes of the source database to TiDB Cloud.
```

In the **Start Position** area, you can specify the following types of start positions for incremental data migration:

- The time when the incremental migration job starts
- GTID
- Binlog file name and position

> If you do not specify a start position, the migration job will only migrate the incremental data that is generated in the source database after the migration job starts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

### The time when the incremental migration job starts

If you select this option, the migration job will only migrate the incremental data that is generated in the source database after the migration job starts.

### Specify GTID

Select this option to specify the GTID of the source database, for example, `3E11FA47-71CA-11E1-9E33-C80AA9429562:1-23`. The migration job will replicate the transactions excluding the specified GTID set to migrate ongoing changes of the source database to TiDB Cloud.

You can run the following command to check the GTID of the source database:

```sql
SHOW MASTER STATUS;
```

For information about how to enable GTID, see [Prerequisites](#prerequisites).

### Specify binlog file name and position

Select this option to specify the binlog file name (for example, `binlog.000001`) and binlog position (for example, `1307`) of the source database. The migration job will start from the specified binlog file name and position to migrate ongoing changes of the source database to TiDB Cloud.

You can run the following command to check the binlog file name and position of the source database:

```sql
SHOW MASTER STATUS;
```

> If there is data in the target database, make sure the binlog position is correct. Otherwise, there might be conflicts between the existing data and the incremental data. If conflicts occur, you need to delete the target database and create a new incremental migration job with the correct binlog position.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If there is data in the target database, make sure the binlog position is correct. Otherwise, there might be conflicts between the existing data and the incremental data. If conflicts occur, the Data Migration job will be failed, and if you want replace the conflict error by the record from source database, then you can resume the Data Migration job.
```

> If there is data in the target database, make sure the binlog position is correct. Otherwise, there might be conflicts between the existing data and the incremental data. If conflicts occur, you need to delete the target database and create a new incremental migration job with the correct binlog position.

Reviewer 2: "If conflicts occur, you need to delete the target database and create a new incremental migration job with the correct binlog position."
In this senario ,will the dm job failed and if the user resume the  dm job ,the dm job will start safe mode to replace the conflict records that stored in the target table @lichunzhu

Reviewer 3: When I check the code I think the answer is no. I will do some tests to validate this tomorrow.

Author: Updated. PTAL.
